title: The event center
Description:Is intended to present some functionalities for the event management 
# The event center

This functionality is intended to present some functionalities for the event management, for example:

•	View Charts;

•	Managing events;

•	Search events.

Before getting started
--------------------------

To have access to all event options, it's necessary to
have a function server with EVM and Mongo application that can communicate  with
ITSM.

Procedure
-------------

1.  Access the functionality through the main menu Processes \> Event Management
    \> Event;

2.  Search for the event and action you want.

3.  On the left side of the screen, right bellow the search area, next where's writted "Event Management", you can select if you want to view the events from the Event Manager or see the Charts of the events.

There are 5 charts available and we'll see each one of them

## Comparison chart by event type

This chart presents trend analysis and comparison by period (defined in the search item, on the magnifyier icon) of events occurred with the status: **Information, Warning, Exception, Up, Down and Unknown**.

## Number of occurrences by event type

The information presented is related to the distribution of events in a ring chart. When clicking on the part you want to see, a balloon with the number of events occurred will appear.

## Number of occurrences by tool

The data presented in this chart refers to the integration with internal and external monitoring tools, in addition to the number of events generated by their source.

## Number of occurrences by configuration item

The chart presents the number of events that occurred in each configuration item divided by status: Information, Warning, Exception, Up and Down. The number displayed within the status indicators refers to the number of events happened in each CI.

When clicking on the indicator, it presents all events that occurred with its information of **Unique ID, Status (classification), Source (tool) and Date/Time**.
 

## Number of occurrences by service 

The information of the chart presents the number of events occurred by service and divided by status: Information, Warning, Exception, Up and Down. The number displayed within the status indicators refers to the number of events happened at each service.

When clicking on the indicator, it presents all events that occurred with its information of **Unique ID, Status (classification), Source (tool) and Date/Time**. 


## Creating event

The events wil be created in the platform through the integration with internal and external monitoring tools. The captured event will be classified (Information, Warning or Exception), then the event will be created with logged status and, according to the automatic actions, an incident, a problem or a notification can be created.  
If an automatic action is triggered, the event will have the status changed from logged to running till it has been solved or archived.

## Related 

[Register Invetory manager](/en-us/4biz-helium/processes/event/configuration/register-inventory-manager.html)



<i class='fa fa-youtube-play  fa-2x' style='color:#97ce17;vertical-align: middle;'> </i> [Video Library](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLB5qK2uzf2ROlR1PEYuzoujqNuxz50uRX)'

!!! tip "About"

    <b>Product/Version:</b> 4biz | Helium &nbsp;&nbsp;
    <b>Updated:</b>01/07/2019 – Larissa Lourenço
