Title: FAQ
description: Here you have the answers for the most common parameters when talking about the CITSmart tool

# Frequently Asked Questions - FAQ

## Processes

### Ticket Management

***Usage***

!!! Question "Is it possible to categorize the Request/Incident (Ticket)?"    

    Both a Request and an Incident can be categorized in the [register of activities in a service](https://docs.citsmart.com/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/processes/portfolio-and-catalog/use/register-service-activity.html), categories can be created on the same registration screen, at the time of category linking, or on specific features for [Create service category](https://docs.citsmart.com/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/processes/portfolio-and-catalog/configuration/create-service-category.html).   

!!! Question "Is it possible to attach documents to incidents, requests, problems and changes?"

    Both the Reques and Incident may have documents attatched in their opening and attendance, for Problems and Changes documents may be attached to each phase of the solution and also, if necessary, in each of the stages defined in the solution of the problem or change.
    Documents can be of any type (extension) and their maximum size can be set by the administrator in system parameter 278 (default is 1GB).
     
!!! Question "How to access the service request from the email notification?"

    To access the service request from the email notification, follow the guidelines below:
    
    1. Make sure you are logged in to the system;
    2. Open the service request email notification;
    3. The notification will have the request number with a hyperlink, just click on the number, which will then be redirected to the Service Management screen, presenting the request information.

!!! Question "What is the impact of the "Solver Group" filter on the behavior of requests and incidents searches?"
    
    When the "solver group" filter is active, only closed ones will be shown, since when selecting this filter, it is understood that there is a need to present the group that actually solved a request, not presenting groups responsible for tasks (according to The flow bound to the request service) executed after the request is resolved.
    
	Let's look at a generic example:
	
    - For example, service A has a linked quality flow, after solving a service A request and advancing the flow, the responsible group will be the quality group and this will terminate the life cycle of the request in question, but this group is not The group that solved this request, it only approved the solution and terminated the request, so it will not appear in the report generated by the Inquiries and Incidents search screen when the "Solver Group" filter is marked with a specific group.
    
    - However, when the "Solver Group" filter is not active, the group presented in the report or search will be the group referring to the current request task, ie if the request is closed and has a quality flow, the group will be presented Of quality as the current group responsible for closing the life cycle of this request, if the request is in progress, will be presented the current group responsible for the execution of this request.

!!! Question "Why will service request numbering not always follow a strict/perfect sequential order on the service request screen or in some reports?"
    
    Both the Service Request screen and some reports (such as "Quality of Service - SLA"), the ordering of the number of requests follows an increasing sequential order, except when:
    
    1- The reports group the data by some special criteria (eg, by SLA, which is what happens in the case of the report "Quality of Service - SLA");
    2- When the feature called Sequence Block is impacted by an external factor, this occurs if:
    
        -  There is an application stop for version upgrade, or environment maintenance and later return;
    
        -  The environment is clustered.

***Configuration***    

!!! Question "How to configure the service request notification e-mails?"
    
    When registering a service request, perform determined activities and its execution, the petitioner will be notified.
    
    In order for the notification be sent it is necessary to perform the following procedures:
    
    1- Access the Contract Services related to the business service Portfolio Management > Services Portfolio > Business Service > Contract > Services and technical service Portfolio Management > Service Portfolio > Business Service > Support/Technical Service > Contract > Services e and insert the e-mail template in the fields:
    
       -   'Incident/Request Opening E-mail Template'
	
       -   'Incident/Requistion Execution E-mail Template'
	
       -   'Incident/Request Ongoing Activities E-mail Template'
        
      RULE: If e-mail templates are not inserted, the notification will not be sent.

    2- Access the Group Register feature General Registration > Staff Management > Group;
    
    3- The Group Register screen will be displayed. If the group has already been registered in the system, search for it;
    
    4- Select it;
    
    5- The intended group entry screen will be displayed, determine if the e-mail notifications (opening, in progress and execution) related to the requests will be mandatory;
    
    RULE: if it is determined that notifications will be mandatory, when registering a service request, on the Incident/Request Service entry screen, these options will be selected already, not allowing any changes. But if it has been determined that notifications will not be mandatory, when registering a service request, these options will be available to be determined by the petitioner.
    
    6- On the Incident/Request Service Request screen, when registering a service request the rules related to the e-mail notifications will be established, determined in the group entry.
    
    RULE: when registering a service request, the notification will only be sent to the performer group, which is responsible for 
    attending to the request. When the activities are in progress and then finished, the notifications will only be sent to the 
    requester.
    
!!! Question "How to enable the service requests escalation rule?"
    
    The service request scheduling rule is enabled on the CITSmart Parameter screen. To enable this rule, proceed as follows:

    1- In the citsmart.cfg file put the routine START_MONITORA_INCIDENTES=TRUE;
    
    2- Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in the main menu System > CITSmart Parameters;
    
    3- The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    
    4- Search and change the parameter 190 - Turns on the operation of the scheduling rules (Eg: Y or N - Default: 'N') informing the value "Y" to activate service request scheduling;
    
    5- Search and change the parameter 31 - Sends e-mail in the execution of request/incident flows (Eg: Y or N), informing the value "Y";
    
    6- Search and change the parameter 297 - Disable sending system e-mails (Values:" Y "or" N "Default:" N ") informing the value "N";
    
    7- Also make the necessary changes in the following parameters, according to the need and scenario of the installation:
    
      -   195 - E-mail template id for sending deadline request notification (Eg: 1)
      
      -   197 - User login that will receive e-mail regarding service request scheduling rules that are expiring (eg Consultant)
      
      -   113 - E-mail Template ID for Auto Escalation
      
      -   10 - SMTP SEND - E-mail origin of service request notifications
      
      -   33 - System access URL
      
    
    8- Click the "Save" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.    
    
!!! Question "How do I set a default group for the first level service request?"
    
    To set the default group for 1st level attendance, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the Group Registration feature by navigating in the main menu Access and Permission > Group. The group registration screen will be displayed, displaying the contracts;
    2. Make the registration of the group of 1st level, if not registered, and proceed with the completion of the fields;
    3. If the 1st level group is already registered in the system, carry out the group search and obtain their identification number (ID);
    4. After obtaining the 1st level group ID, access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating through the main menu. Parameterization > Parameters CITSmart;
    5. The CITSmart Parameters screen appears, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    6. Perform the search for parameter "9 - Group ID Level 1";
    7. Select the same;
    8. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, enter the identification number (ID) of the 1st level group;
    9. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.
    
    RULE: after setting the parameter, when registering a Service Request/Incident, if you have not informed the group to service the service, the group will be scaled, which was defined in the parameter For 1st level service.    
    
    
!!! Question "Why does the system display an invalid date message when auditing the ticket?"

    In the Ticket Management interface, specifically in the "Audit" item, when trying to configure the auditing of an open ticket (set start and end dates in the filter), the following error may occur: the system will display the message "Invalid Date". This is because the functionality requires that the language set in the system and browser used be the same.
    If this requirement is not observed and this difference occurs in the languages, when auditing the tickets, the system will display a message and make it impossible to obtain the desired report. It's therefore necessary to match the system and browser languages.
    
### Portfolio and Catalog Management

***Usage***

!!! Question "How to link staff members (users) to a group?"
    
    There are two ways to link staff members (users) to groups, being:

    FROM THE GROUP'S REGISTRATION
	
    1. Access the Group Entry feature navigating through the main menu. Place the cursor on the option Access and Permissions, and click on the Group option (see [Register Group](/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/initial-settings/access-settings/user/register-groups.html));
    2. The Group Entry screen will be displayed. If the group is already registered in the system, perform a group search and select it. Then, the intended group entry screen will be displayed;
    3. Click on the add icon of the Staff Member field, the staff member search screen will be displayed;
    4. Search for the intended staff member and select the entry to add them to the group. Afterwards, the staff member will be linked to the group;
    5. After linking, click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.
    
	FROM THE USER'S REGISTRATION
    
	1. Access the User Entry feature navigating through the main menu. Place the cursor on the option General Registration, Staff Management and click on the "User" option (see [Register user](/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/initial-settings/access-settings/user/users.html));
    2. The User Entry screen will be displayed. If the user is already registered in the system, perform a user search and select it;
    3. Click on the add icon of the Group field, the group search screen will be displayed;
    4. Search for the intended group and select it. Afterwards, the user will be linked to the group;
    5. After linking, click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.
    
!!! Question "How to relate group to contract?"
    
    To relate the group to the contract, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating through the main menu. Position the mouse in the Parameterization option and click on the Parameters CITSmart option. The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab. Once this is done, it will display the screen for parameter search;
    2. Perform the search for parameter "41 - Does the control of employees' binding to contracts (Y / N)?" And select the same. After that, the parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed;
    3. In the value field, enter the "Y" value so that the contracts are displayed on the group master screen. Once this is done, click on the "Save" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit;
    4. After configuring the parameter, access the Group Master feature by navigating in the main menu General Files > Personnel Management > Group. The group registration screen will be displayed, displaying the contracts (see knowledge [Register group](/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/initial-settings/access-settings/user/register-groups.html));
    5. If the group you want to link to the contract is already registered in the system, perform the group search and select the same;
    6. Once this is done, the registration screen of the selected group will be displayed;
    7. Select the contracts to which the group will be linked. After that, click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit.
    
!!! Question "How to relate unit to contract?"
    
    To relate the unit to the contract, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating through the main menu. Position the mouse in the Parameterization option and click on the Parameters CITSmart option. After that, the CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab. Once this is done, it will display the screen for parameter search;
    2. Perform the parameter search "61 - Link contracts to unit" and select the same. After that, the parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed;
    3. In the value field, enter the value "Y" so that the contracts are displayed on the unit master screen. Once this is done, click on the "Save" button to perform the operation;
    4. After setting the parameter, access the Unit Registration feature by navigating in the main menu General Files > Personnel Management > Unit.The unit registration screen will be displayed, displaying the contracts;
    5. If the unit you wish to link to the contract is already registered in the system, perform the unit search and select it. Once this is done, the registration screen of the particular unit will be displayed;
    6. Select the contracts to which the unit will be linked;
    7. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.    

***Configuration***

!!! Question "How do I design the assets that make up my service?"
   
    The design of the assets that make up the service is done using the Service Map Design tool that provides efficient and effective drawings for managing the service during its life cycle, demonstrating the related configuration items.
    
    To carry out this design, proceed as follows (see [Configure service attributes](/en-us/citsmart-platform-8/processes/portfolio-and-catalog/use/configure-services-attributes.html)):
    
    1. Access the Service Map Design feature for the Business Service Portfolio and Catalog Management > Portfolio and Catalog Management > Support Menu > Advanced Portfolio > Service Catalog > Next Service > Service Map;
    2. The screen for designing the assets that make up the business service will be presented;
    3. Perform the design.    

### Knowledge Management

***Usage***

!!! Question "What is the meaning of each privacy a knowledge can have in the knowledge base?"
    
    - Public: all users with access to the Knowledge Portal have access, regardless of whether they have access to the knowledge folder.
    - Confidential: only author and approver can view knowledge.
    - Internal: only people with permission in the knowledge folder can view.
    
!!! Question "Is it possible to version knowledge in the knowledge management?"
    
    To version a knowledge, open one in the knowledge management interface, click on "Edit" in the knowledge information screen and then on "Version". It's also possible to "Archive the previous version" of the knowledge.    

***Configuration***

!!! Question "How are documents ranked at the time of SOLR knowledge base search?"
    
    To rank the documents at the time of the search, Solr generates a score for each document.
    
    Thus, the document that has the highest score, is presented first and the others, with lower scores, in sequence.
    
    To calculate the document score Solr uses a standard algorithm, where the frequency of the searched term is checked. But, it is possible to change the punctuation with the use of the boosts.
    
    Solr's boosters can be used in two moments at the time of indexing or query, and their use in search is more common.
    Some boosters that may change the calculation of the score at the time of the survey are:
    
    -   term^num: where "num" is the importance of the search term, example: incident^2;
    
    -   And the field boosters and dismax and edismax functions can also be used to boost search.
    
    At ITSM, no booster is used, so far, only Solr's standard score calculation is used, and at the end of the search the ranking is done by the score and by the number of times the knowledge was voted / liked.
    
    Boosters are open for use, but to use them requires a better analysis of the importance of fields and documents added to Solr, by the knowledge base.
    
!!! Question "How to setup the SOLR feature?"
    
    PARAMETER CONFIGURATION
    
    1. To configure a parameter navigate to the screen “Parametrization > Knowledge Management”;
    2. Search for the parameter “SOLR URL server (i.e.: http://localhost:8983/solr/collection_name)”;
    3. After inserting the SOLR server URL, a URL example would be the following: http://localhost:8983/solr/base_conhecimento .

    INDEXING EXISTING KNOWLEDGE ENTRIES
	
    1. To index knowledge entries navigate to the screen “System > Configurations > Knowledge Management (Index)”;
    2. If there are indexed knowledge entries already click on “Remove Knowledge base index”;
    3. Shortly after, click on "Index Knowledge Base";
    4. If any errors occur click on “Refresh the Index Server”;
    5. Shortly after, click again on ”Index Knowledge Base";
    6. If any errors occur contact the ITSM Support.    
    
### Problem Management    

***Usage***

!!! Question "Is it possible to attach documents to incidents, requests, problems and changes?"

    Both a Request and an Incident may have attached documents in their opening and in their attendance, for Problems and Changes, documents may be attached to each stage of the solution and also, if necessary, in each of the defined stages in the resolution of the problem or change.
    Documents can be of any type (extension) and their maximum size can be set by the administrator in system parameter 278 (the default is 1GB).
    
***Configuration***    
    
!!! Question "How to enable the scheduling rule of the problems module?"
    
    The problem scaling rule is enabled on the CITSmart Parameter screen. To enable this rule, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in the main menu Parameterization > Citsmart Parameters.
    2. The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab.
    3. It will display the screen for parameter search, perform the parameter search "194 - Enable the problem escalation defined in the scheduling rules (Ex: Y or N - Default 'N')" and select the same.
    4. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, enter the value "Y" to enable problem escalation;
    5. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.
    
### Change Management     

***Usage***

!!! Question "Is it possible to evaluate the impact of changes in order to approve the change registration?"

    The process of risks in change begins in the design of the change portfolio where the "**Type of Impact and Risk Analysis**" is provided, which can be simplified or complete. The next step is in the change register to inform the data of the risk(s) in the left lateral bar in the item of risk analysis, that will be presented with the indication defined in the portfolio of change:
    
    *   "**Simplified**" for a simplified analysis in the item.
    
    *   "**Complete**" for a complete risk analysis with the definitionof Targets, Impact Analysis and Risk Evaluation. 

!!! Question "Is it possible to attach documents to incidents, requests, problems and changes?"

    Both a Request and an Incident may have attached documents in their opening and in their attendance, for Problems and Changes, documents may be attached to each stage of the solution and also, if necessary, in each of the defined stages in the resolution of the problem or change.
    
    Documents can be of any type (extension) and their maximum size can be set by the administrator in system parameter 278 (the default is 1GB).

!!! Question "How to update a Configuration Item directly by the Request for Change?"
 
    When a RFC is to update a CI, it's possible to change the CI data directly through the change management screen. For that: 
    
    1. Access the Change Management (Processes > Change Management > Change); 
    2. Select the RFC and click on it, then click on "Open"; 
    3. In the management interface, click on the item "Related CI"; 
    4. In the actions item, click on the "Change" icon; 
    5. Change the CI with the new information; 
    6. Click on "Save".

***Configuration***
       
!!! Question "How to define the obligatoriness of the linking change with CI?"
    
    The requirement of the change link to the CI is determined on the CITSmart Parameter screen. To determine this requirement, proceed as instructed below:

    1. Access the CITSmart Parameter feature navigating through the main menu;
    2. The CITSmart Parameter screen will be displayed, click on the Search tab;
    3. The parameter search screen will be displayed. Search for the parameter "85 - Verification of change link related to the configuration item (Default: Y)";
    4. Select it;
    5. Then, the parameter registry screen featuring the selected entry data will be displayed, on the value field, insert the "Y" value;
    6. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which time, date and user will be stored for a future audit;
    7. After configuring the parameter, when registering a Configuration Item, the change link will be mandatory.
    
!!! Question "How to enable the change module escalation rule?"
    
    The changes escalating rule is enacted on the CITSmart Parameter screen.
    
    To enable this rule, proceed as follows:

    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature navigating through the main menu Parametrization > CITSmart Parameters;
    2. The CITSmart Parameters screen will be displayed, click on the CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    3. The CITSmart Parameters search screen will be displayed, search for the parameter "193 - Enable Change Escalation Rules (e.g. : Y or N - Default ´N´)";
    4. The parameter registry screen will be displayed according to the selected entry, on the Value field, insert the "Y" value to enact the change escalation;
    5. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the procedure, at which date, time and user will automatically be stored for a future audit.
    
### Assets and Configuration Management    

***Usage***

!!! Question "Is it possible to assign responsibility for a configuration item to a user/group?"    
    
    Yes. It's possible to assign the person responsible for a CI by editing its options (Processes > Configuration Management > CMDB > Search > Edit > Responsible Type > Responsible). Note that updating a CI may be tied to Change Management, being necessary to link the ID of a RFC.
    
!!! Question "How to update a Configuration Item directly by the Request for Change?"

    When a RFC is to update a CI, it's possible to change the CI data directly through the change management screen. For that: 
    
    1. Access the Change Management (Processes > Change Management > Change); 
    2. Select the RFC and click on it, then click on "Open"; 
    3. In the management interface, click on the item "Related CI"; 
    4. In the actions item, click on the "Change" icon; 
    5. Change the CI with the new information; 
    6. Click on "Save".    

!!! Question "What is the meaning of each inventory status of CI?"
    
    -   Inventory: the inventory was able to read the CI information and ended successfully;
    -   Ignored: in the citsmart / pages / evmInventoryConfiguracao / evmInventoryConfiguracao.load screen we have an option to ignore the machines being inventoried, this markup appears when this occurs;
    -   Unreachable: when the server encounters the IC but can not bring the information;
    -   Not inventoried: when neither it finds the IC in the network, but knows that it already existed;
    -   Running: while reading the inventory, the IC is in this status.

***Configuration***

!!! Question "How to configure the Configuration Items lifecycle phases names?"
    
    The configuration of the CI lifecycle phases names can be performed through the GCAS Configuration Screen and through the CITSmart parameters screen. To perform this configuration, proceed as instructed below.
    
    CONFIGURATION THROUGH THE GCAS CONFIGURATION SCREEN
    
    1- Access the GCAS Configuration feature navigating through the main menu ITIL Processes > Configuration Management > GCAS Configuration. Afterwards, the service assets and the management parameters (attributes) configuration screen will be displayed;
    
    2- Insert the parameters value (attributes):
    
      - Name of the CIs Group which are in the Development Phase (i.e.: CIs in Development)
      
      - Name of the CIs Group which are in the Production Phase (i.e.: CIs in Production)
      
      - Name of the CIs group which are being confirmated (i.e.: CIs Being Confirmated).
    
    3- Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which time, date and user will be stored for a future audit;
    
    4- After configuring the parameters related to the CI lifecycle phases, the CI lifecycle phases' descriptions will be displayed on the Configuration Items Management screen, according to what was specified in the parameter value.
    
	CONFIGURATION THROUGH THE GCAS CONFIGURATION SCREEN
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature (Parametrization > Citsmart Parameters);
    2. Then, the CITSmart Parameters screen will be displayed, click on the Search tab. The parameter search screen will be displayed;
    3. Perform a search for the parameter "92 - Name of The Ci Group is In Development Phase (e.g.: CIs in Development)";
    4. Select it. Then, the parameter registry screen featuring the selected entry data will be displayed;
    5. On the Value field, insert the name of the CI group in development;
    6. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which time, date and user will be stored for a future audit;
    7. Search for the parameter "93 - Name of The CIs Group in Production Phase (e.g.: ICs em Produção)";
    8. Select it. Then, the parameter registry screen featuring the selected entry data will be displayed;
    9. On the Value field, insert the name of the CI group in production phase;
    10. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which time, date and user will be stored for a future audit;
    11. Perform the search for the parameter "94 - Name of the group of ICs that are in the Production Phase (Ex: CIs in Homologation)";
    12. Select it. Then, the parameter registry screen featuring the selected entry data will be displayed;
    13. In the value field, enter the name of the CI group of the homologation phase;
    14. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry, at which time, date and user will be stored for a future audit.    

!!! Question "How to define the obligatoriness of linking the change with the CI?"

    The obligation of the change with the CI is mandatory in the CITSmart Parameter screen. To define this requirement, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating the main menu Parameterization > Parameters CITSmart;
    2. The CITSmart Parameters screen appears, click on the CITSmart Parameter Search tab;
    3. It will appear the screen for parameter search. Search for the parameter "85 - Check the link of change related to the  
    Configuration Item (Default: S)";
    4. Select it;
    5. It will be presented the parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected registration, in the value field, enter the value "S";
    6. Click on "Save" to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit;
    7. After setting the parameter, when registering a Configuration Item, the change link is mandatory.

!!! Question "To which recipient will be sent notifications of CI?"
    
    CI notifications will be sent to the recipient defined in the Citsmart Parameter screen.
    
	To set the recipient, proceed as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in the main menu Parameterization > Citsmart Parameters;
    2. The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    3. It will display the screen for parameter search;
    4. Perform the search for parameter "90 - Sending Notification E-mails from ICs (1-Group, 2-Owner, 3-All)";
    5. Select the same;
    6. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, enter the identification number of the recipient (1 - Group, 2 - Owner or 3 - All);
    7. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit;
    8. After configuration of the parameter, notifications of IC notifications will be sent to the recipient (group, owner or all), as specified in the parameter value.

### Event Management

***Usage***

!!! Question "How can Event Management become a business monitoring tool?"

    WEBSERVICE SCHEME FOR LEGACY SYSTEMS (BUSINESS MONITORING)
    It is possible to connect the EVM component to any software, even one other than the one that the Event Management module normally integrates (Nagios, Zabbix and Inventory), since the data sent (via webservice) follow a pre-established pattern.
    
    Once the data is sent to the Citsmart Event Monitor, rules can be created (for example with the Esper EPL) so that certain events are triggered according to some condition observed in the data.
    
    Example "Payroll">
    
    -   Let's say that the rule is that one company does not hire more than 5 employees per sector;
    -   The payroll program could send the minimum data of each hiring by department (defined in the company's budget plan), so that whenever the contraction number per department exceeds the pre-established limit, an event of "excess hiring" could be triggered.
   

## Platform Administration

!!! Question "How to configure Nagios authentication via LDAP?"
    
    The Nagios authentication configuration via LDAP is:
    
    1. Change the thruk.conf file as follows:
    ```sh
    vim /etc/apache2/conf-available/thruk.conf
	```
    <Location /thruk/>
    Options ExecCGI FollowSymLinks
    AuthName "LDAP Authentication"
    AuthType Basic
    AuthBasicProvider ldap
    AuthLDAPURL ldap://auth01.citsmartcloud.com/dc=citsmart,dc=com?uid?sub?(objectClass=*)
    Require ldap-group ou=people,o=citsmartco,dc=citsmart,dc=com
    Require valid-user
    </Location>

    2. Run:
    ```sh
    /etc/init.d/apache2 restart
	```
    ```sh
    /etc/init.d/thruk restart
	```
	```sh
    /etc/init.d/nagios reload
	```

!!! Question "How to configure the automatic satisfaction survey response?"
    
    The automatic response mechanism, which will answer automatically all service request satisfaction surveys, kicks in when the satisfaction survey is not filled out by the user within the deadline determined by the systems manager.
    
    To configure the automatic responses, proceed as instructed below:

    1- Configure the following system parameters which determine the behavior of the automatic response mechanism:
     
      - Parameter 139: Determines a deadline, in days, the user has to fill out the satisfaction survey, before it is automatically filled out by the system;
    
      - Parameter 152: Default rating which will be attributed to surveys that have been automatically filled out. Options: EXCELLENT, GOOD, REGULAR, POOR;
     
      - Parameter 151: Activates or deactivates system automatic responses. Y to activate and N to deactivate.
     
    2- Access the Batch Processing feature (System > Batch Processing);
    
    3- The batch processing entry screen will be displayed, fill out the fields:
     
       - Description: insert the description which will identify the processing. For example: "Automatic satisfaction survey response";
   
       - Situation: the situation determines if this processing will be active or inactive. When it is inactive the requests will not be answered;
    
       - Type: select the “Java Class” type;
    
       - Schedule: determines when the activity will be executed, it is up to the administrator to determine the best time and recurrence ;
    
       - Content: insert the text: br.com.centralit.citcorpore.quartz.job.AvaliarSolicitacoesNaoRespondidas;
     
    4- Click on the "Save" button to confirm the entry.
    
	RULE: from the moment of the entry, at the scheduled time and date, the unanswered requests (beyond the deadline defined on parameter 139) will automatically be answered (according to the value determined on parameter 152), in case parameter 151 has an "Y" value.
	
!!! Question "How to enable automatic e-mail reading routine?"
    
    When sending an e-mail to CITSmart support, the automatic e-mail will be read, if the e-mail refers to a request, the title of the e-mail will be verified, if it contains the word 'Request' and the Number of the request, if it contains, the e-mail will be stored as an occurrence in the relevant request.
    
    For this e-mail reading routine to work perfectly, the following procedures must be followed:
    
    1. Install the java 7 version, if it has lower version the routine will not work;
    2. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    4. It will display the screen for parameter search, search the parameter "23-SMTP READ - Service Desk mail entry server" and select it;
    5. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, inform the e-mail entry server (eg orion.egrupo.com.br);
    6. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit;
    7. Perform the search for the parameter "24 - SMTP READY - Service Desk mail inbox" and select the same;
    8. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed in the value field, inform the e-mail or login of the e-mail account (eg support.citsmart);
    9. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.
    10. Perform the parameter search "25 - SMTP READY - Service Desk E-Mailbox Password" and select the same;
    11. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, the password of the e-mail account;
    12. Click on the "Save" button to perform the operation, in this case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit;
    13. Perform the search of the parameter "26 - SMTP READY - Service Desk e-mail server provider (imaps, pops, imap, pop, etc)" and select it;
    14. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed in the value field, inform the protocol that will be used to read e-mails (eg imap or pop) and click the "Save" button to perform the operation, In this case the date, time and user will be stored automatically for a future audit;
    15. Perform the search for the parameter "27 - SMTP READY - Service Desk mail server port" and select the same;
    16. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, enter the port that will be used to access the mail server (587 for pop server or 995 for imap server);
    17. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit;
    18. Perform the search for the parameter "28 - SMTP READY - Service Desk E-Mailbox Folder" and select it;
    19. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, inform the folder of the e-mail account's inbox;
    20. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit;
    21. Perform the search for the parameter "200 - Enable routine for reading new e-mails automatically (ex: Y or N - Default 'N')" and select the same one;
    22. The parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected record will be displayed, in the value field, enter the "Y" value to activate the automatic reading routine;
    23. Click the "Record" button to perform the operation, in which case the date, time and user will be automatically stored for a future audit.	

!!! Question "How to enable the Service Portal (Smart Portal)?"
    
    In order for users to have access to the Portal or Smart Portal, you must enable it as follows:
    
    1. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in the main menu Parameterization > Citsmart Parameters. The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab. Once this is done, it will display the screen for parameter search;
    2. Perform the parameter search "46 - Enable Portal as Citsmart home screen?" And select the same. After that, the parameter registration screen with the contents of the selected registry will be displayed;
    3. In order for users to have access to the Portal or Smart Portal;
    4. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature by navigating in the main menu Parameterization > Citsmart Parameters. The CITSmart Parameters screen will appear, click the CITSmart Parameters Search tab. Once this is done, it will display the screen for parameter search.
    
!!! Question "How to enable the satisfaction survey?"
    
    The satisfaction survey is the evaluation of the request fulfillment performed through the e-mail notification.
    
    To enable the satisfaction survey, proceed as instructed below:
    
    1. Create an e-mail template (the e-mail template must contain the following keyword: ${LINKPESQUISASATISFACAO});
    2. Access the CITSmart Parameters feature navigating through the main menu Parametrization > CITSmart Parameters;
    3. The CITSmart Parameters screen will be displayed, click on the CITSmart Parameters Search tab;
    4. Search for the parameter "Send e-mail when running requests/incidents flows";
    5. Select it;
    6. The parameter registry screen will be displayed according to the selected entry, on the Value field, insert the "Y" value to enact sending e-mails related to the service requests;
    7. Click on the "Save" button to confirm the procedure;
    8. Access the request, incident and contract services for the business service Portfolio and Catalog Management > Portfolio and Catalog Management > Support Menu > Advanced Portfolio > Service Catalog > Next Service and technical service Portfolio Management and Catalog > Portfolio and Catalog Management > Support Menu > Advanced Portfolio > Service Catalog > Next Service and verify if the e-mail template that has been created is entered in the field "E-mail Template at Completion of Requests/Incidents";
    9. When an e-mail notification is received warning the service request has been executed, a link to the satisfaction survey will be displayed. Clicking on the link opens a screen to evaluate the attendance.
   
!!! Question "How to improve the performance of CITSmart Enterprise ITSM?"
    
    System performance is defined as the time the software takes to perform a given task, since this performance is a strong quality attribute perceived by software users.
    
    There is the capability of the system to work with more than one instance. For this, it is necessary to use the configuration file (citsmart.cfg), where you can activate or inactivate routines.
    
    To use this capability, the citsmart.cfg file must exist in the directory:
    ```sh
    \jboss\standalone\configuration\ (When Jboss rises as a single instance)
    \jboss\domain\configuration\ (When using cluster, has domains and hosts)
    ```
	Here are the guidelines you need to complete the configuration:

    RULE: where $ {value} is replaced by the corresponding values.
	
    1- START_MODE_RULES = $ {value} (This parameter defines whether to process scheduling rules. Enter the value TRUE to activate or FALSE to disable);
    
    2- START_MODE_ITSM = $ {value} (This parameter defines whether to display the ITSM interface.) Enter the value TRUE or FALSE, if it is set to FALSE, it will not allow you to open the ITSM (Incident, etc.) functionality;
    
    3- START_MONITORING_ASSETS = $ {value} (This parameter sets whether asset tracking is enabled. Enter the value TRUE to activate or FALSE to disable);
    
    4- QUANTITY_BACKUPLOGDADOS = $ {value} (This parameter defines the number of items in the table that are to be backed up. Enter the number of items, eg 1000);
    
    5- The parameters below when not enabled causes the system to go up with threads disabled to improve system performance. It is necessary to configure these parameters before starting Jboss for their operation;
    
    6- START_MONITORA_INCIDENTES = $ {value} (This parameter sets whether to disable incident tracking. Enter the value TRUE on or FALSE on);
    
    7- START_VERIFY_EVENTS = $ {value} (This parameter sets whether to disable event checking. Enter the value TRUE on or FALSE on);
    
    8- Use of the parameters below is optional. They separate the main connection pool with the flow, inventory, and report execution pool;
    
       - JDBC_ALIAS_BPM = java: / jdbc / $ {value} (This parameter defines the name of the datasource of the stream. Enter the name of the datasource, eg java: / jdbc / citsmartFlux);
       
       - JDBC_ALIAS_INVENTORY = java: / jdbc / $ {value} (This parameter defines the name of the datasource of the inventory. Enter the name of the datasource, eg java: / jdbc / citsmart_inventory);
       
       - JDBC_ALIAS_REPORTS = java: / jdbc / $ {value} (This parameter defines the name of the datasource of the reports. Enter the name of the datasource, eg java: / jdbc / citsmart_reports).
       
    9- The following parameter separates the processing of the BPM event routine into a separate thread pool from the main system thread pool, to ease the use of database and server resources.
    
       - JDBC_ALIAS_BPM_EVENTOS = java: / jdbc / $ {value} (This parameter defines the name of the BPM event datasource. Enter the name of the datasource, eg java: / jdbc / citsmartBpmEvents).    

!!! Question "How to integrate the client company AD into CITSmart Enterprise ITSM that is in the cloud offered by CITSmart Corporation?"
    
    Regarding the LDAP compliance of CITSmart Enterprise ITSM, there are two scenarios:
    
    1. On-demand environments: Administrator must connect to the client's directory server;
    2. Cloud environment (offered by CITSmart Corporation): Administrator must enable the connection to the client directory server.
    
!!! Question "How to replace each image of the CITSmart Enterprise ITSM logos?"
    
    Whenever there is a need to properly customize the CTSmart Enterprise ITSM logos, the following procedure must be performed:
    
    1- Access path: System > Settings > Environment settings; Three frames will appear for image upload:
    
       -   Initial Logo: Image displayed on the initial login screen of the system;
      
       -   Portal Logo: Image presented in the System Services Portal;
      
       -   System Logo: Image presented when accessing the system;
      
       -   Report Logo: Image presented in all jasper reports.
	
    2- Upload (can be different images).
    
	RULE: If you do not choose a new logo, the default logo will be CITSmart logo. For copyright purposes, this logo change is allowed only in the Enterprise version of the CITSmart ITSM.

    MOST PRECISE IMAGE CONFIGURATION FOR JASPER REPORTS
	
    The user has access to the properties of the image that will appear in the reports.

    RULE: if the user-customized image is not configured correctly in reports, it must be redesigned with more appropriate ratios.   

!!! Question "What does it take to configure an IC that is physically on the client's corporate network to be inventoried by the CITSmart Enterprise ITSM that is in the cloud offered by CITSmart Corporation?"
   
    [Original] In the cloud, mongodb and evm / inv are in the client structure, because it is not possible to connect in an internal range with source from the cloud.
    
    [For validation] In this particular scenario, the MongoDB, CITSmart EVM, and CITSmart Inventory components must be installed and configured within the client's network framework because CITSmart Enterprise ITSM (Cloud) can not connect to a client's internal range.
    
!!! Question "What is the attachment upload features file size limit?"
    
    The upload size of the attachments is specified by the system administrator in parameter 278, the default size is 1GB.
   
!!! Question "What is the Fato table of the service request module and how to insert data?"
    
    The service request Fato table is intended to receive consolidated information regarding the service request.
    
    For example: 
    
        IDSOLICITACAOSERVICO
        DATAHORASOLICITACAO
        DIAABERTURA
        MESABERTURA
        ANOABERTURA
        DATAHORAFIM
        DIAFECHAMENTO
        MESFECHAMENTO
        ANOFECHAMENTO
        IDGRUPOATUAL
        GRUPOATUAL
        IDPRIORIDADE
        NOMEPRIORIDADE
        IDSERVICOCONTRATO
        IDCONTRATO
        NUMEROCONTRATO
        IDTIPOSERVICO
        NOMETIPOSERVICO
        IDPORTFOLIOSERVICO
        DESCPORTFOLIOSERVICO
        IDSOLICITANTE
        SOLICITANTE
        IDUSUARIORESPONSAVELATUAL
        TECNICORESPONSAVEL
        IDTIPODEMANDASERVICO
        TIPOSOLICITACAO
        IDCAUSAINCIDENTE
        CAUSA
        IDCATEGORIASOLUCAO
        CATEGORIASOLUCAO
        IDSTATUS
        STATUS
        IDACORDONIVELSERVICO
        PRAZOSLA_HH
        PRAZOSLA_MM
        IDCALENDARIO
        CALENDARIO
        DATAHORALIMITE
        DIALIMITESLA
        MESLIMITESLA
        ANOLIMITESLA
        TAREFAATUAL
        IDCLIENTE
        CLIENTE
        IDFORNECEDOR
        FORNECEDOR
        IDCATEGORIASERVICO
        CATEGORIASERVICO
        IDCONDICAOOPERACAO
        NOMECONDICAOOPERACAO
        IDORIGEM
        ORIGEMDASOLICITACAO
        IDMOEDA
        MOEDA
        IDTIPOFLUXO
        FLUXO
        IDIMPORTANCIANEGOCIO
        IMPORTANCIASERVICOAONEGOCIO
        IDLOCALIDADE
        LOCALIDADE
        IDUNIDADE
        UNIDADE
        URGENCIA
        IMPACTO
        RUPTURASLA
        QTDEREABERTURAS
        HOUVERECLASSIFICACAO
        TEMPOATENDIMENTOHH
        TEMPOATENDIMENTOMM
        TEMPOATRASOHH
        TEMPOATRASOMM
        MAJOR
        NOTAPESQUISASATISFACAO
        QTDESOLICITACOESFILHAS
        QTDESUBSOLICITACOES
        QTDEBASECONHECIMENTO
        QTDEPROBLEMAS
        QTDELIBERACAO
        QTDEMUDANCAS
        QTDEICS
        QTDEAPLICACOES
        QTDEPROJETOS
        QTDEANEXOS
        QTDEAGENDAMENTOATIVIDADES
        QTDEAGENDAMENTATIVFINALIZADAS
        CONTRATOAPOIO
        SERVICOAPOIO
        CUSTOSERVICO
        SERVICOINDISPONIVEL
        QTDEELOGIOS
        QTDEQUEIXAS
        PROCEDIMENTOCONTINUIDADE
        CUSTOINDISPONIBILIDADE
        IDSERVICO
        NOMESERVICO
        IDATIVIDADE
        NOMEATIVIDADE
        DATAHORACARGA
    
    This information is fed through the CITSmart batch processing routine, running the Rhino scripts as the DBMS.

    **Scripts available for:**

    - Oracle SQL

    - Postgre SQL
    
    - SQL Server

    [Download Scripts](/en-us/images/scripts-tabla-fato.zip)    

!!! Question "What permissions are necessary on the destination folder of the Logdata table backup?"

    The permissions on the folder must be read and write to the user that JBoss uses.
    
!!! Question "When does data synchronization occur with LDAP?"
    
    The system synchronizes the credential data of its users with LDAP in three different situations:
    
    1. On application activation, usually in sequence to the product version update procedure;
    2. When the user logs in (access to the system with its login and password), then the system automatically checks the user's 
    authentication and permission;
    3. In the LDAP Configuration menu option, when the user clicks its 'Synchronize' link.   

!!! Question "When is removed the data from the Logdata table?"
    
    The backup routine of the LogData table removes the data from the table and saves it to a file, that is, the table becomes clean after processing.
    
!!! Question "Why are the schedules created by the tool different from the current time?"
    
    SCENARIO
    
    1. When creating a ticket, the time is different from the actual time, alternating between 1 (one) and 3 (three) hours of delay or advance.

    WHAT TO CHECK
    
    1. Postgresql database configuration file:
    
        Postgresql.conf - timezone = 'BRAZIL/EAST'
    
    2. On the container cloud:
    
        Setting timezone on the operating system.
    
    3. Setting up the TimeZone on the JRE:
    
        https://docs.oracle.com/javase/9/troubleshoot/time-zone-settings-jre.htm#JSTGD362    

!!! Question "Why in some reports does the same request appear more than once?"
    
    In some reports such as "Report Incidents / Service Requests - Detailed", both in pdf format and in xls format, the same request may exist more than once, however they are distinct details because it deals with each step of the request, so each time it "repeats" is because it changes the task, or the responsible, or the phase, or the situation, or the group solver or the final hour of service.
    
    In other reports, such as the "Report Incidents / Service Requests", there is no detail of the request according to the activities and therefore the request is not shown more than once.
    
!!! Question "Why is the result 'Empty Report' when generating the reportQuantitativeControlPercentual when selecting in the filter the situation 'in progress' and the 'solver group'?"
    
    This is not an error, the solver group field is populated only when the request is terminated, this causes to only brings results to situations such as "Closed", incompatible with what is being requested / reported in the filters.    

!!! Question "Will the backup be overwritten or will there be a file for every day?"
    
    If your routine has a daily backup, a file will be created every day, containing the name and date of the file.
    
!!! Question "Why does my instance with DBMS SQL Server is slow on the ticket listing screen?" 

    In the standalone.xml file you must add the following configuration to the SQL Server database access URL:
    ;sendStringParametersAsUnicode=false
    
    - Example:

    ```java
    jdbc:sqlserver://server:port;databaseName=myDataBase;sendStringParametersAsUnicode=false
    ```

    Enter the configuration of all dataSources.

!!! Question "How can the expiration time of the application sessions be changed?"
    
    This type of change is configured in the functionality Parametrization > CITSmart Parameters. Then, select the parameter 449 and add the value you want in minutes. After that, you need to disconnect and reconnect to the system, so the system will look for the new default for session expiration time.
